{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Wim Klooster, 
\i Revolutions in the Atlantic World: A Comparative History
\i0  (New York: New York University Press, 2009).
\b0 \
\

\b Introduction
\b0 \
\
1- "Although each uprising\'85had its own causes, traits, and impact, they all created sovereign states that professed hostility to privilege and began to question black slavery." \
\
1-2 - 
\i Contributions of R. R. Palmer and Jacques Godechot.
\i0 \
\
*2 - 
\i Four aspects of emphasis for Klooster. REVISIT.
\i0 \
\
2-5 - 
\i Snapshot of the diversity of privileges across sections of Atlantic societies before the revolutions. While the European Atlantic was stratified, small holdings seemed abundant, there was economic and social inequality among the clergy and nobility, and measures of colonial self-government seemed to be the rule instead of the exception.
\i0 \
\
5 - "Only by negotiating with colonial elites could metropolitan authorities hope to achieve policy goals. The inevitable price they paid was to recognize the right of settlers to enjoy some form of self-government. As long as the mother countries did not tamper with the principle of negotiation, colonial elites would not call into question their loyalty to the imperial center."\
\
5-10 - 
\i Broad strokes of the decades of war (1739-1763) that embroiled European powers and their colonies, and set the geopolitical stage for the subsequent revolutions. Competition over trade between England and France emerged as a primary antagonism. The wars were the chief reason for monarchical reforms that challenged the privileges of the clergy and nobility, and set about addressing domestic issues like education, food shortages, and poor relief.
\i0  \
\
10 - "Europe's main powers were thus compelled to embark on ambitious programs of fiscal and military reform to pay for the [Seven Years' War] and prepare for the next. These reforms would help undermine the stability of the old regimes."\
\

\b Civil War in the British Empire: The American Revolution
\b0 \
\
11-13 - 
\i The ethnic diversity of continental British America, French hostilities and the overall European stress on Indians in Ohio Country (where the Seven Years' War began). Some regional Indian identities were forged here through migration.
\i0 \
\
13 - "\'85European settlers found a combination of conditions in Britain's North American provinces that set them apart from other New World colonies: 'Weakness of royal authority relative to local assemblies, an extensive territory, widespread property ownership, relatively high degrees of social mobility, explosive population growth, growth of settlements and high levels of internal migration, and a less stratified society'."\
\

\i Naturally though, there was significant inequality between free laborers, slaves, and servants v. planters, landlords, merchants, and lawyers. Southern colonial elites tried to emulate the landed gentry of England.
\i0 \
\
13-14 - 
\i England's Glorious Revolution (1688-89) set the ideological stage for various degrees of self-government in the British colonies, although colonial assemblies had existed for years before. Relatively high white male suffrage. Thus an era of "salutary neglect" --> Navigation Acts largely ignored with no repercussions. 
\i0 \
\
14-15 - 
\i Colonials had a social independence streak. Rising economic importance of mainland British America: population growth, relative wealth used to buy British manufactured goods.
\i0 \
\
15-16 - 
\i Six Nations (Iroquois) defected from the French to the British. Treaty of Paris (1763) had France surrender New France and all territory east of the Mississippi River. Indians were left more vulnerable than ever.
\i0 \
\
16-17 - 
\i Pontiac's Rebellion (1763) broke out against the British. Indians reclaimed some land, and the British government yielded somewhat. Colonists angered by the crown's limited ability to protect them (thought they sort of sided with the Indians because of King's Proclamation of October 1763), and they flooded Indian territory anyway. 
\i0 \
\
17-18 - 
\i The war forced colonial assemblies to organize for war. They resented the Crown, who they thought didn't do enough to protect them. Those in England thought the colonists did little if anything to contribute to the war.
\i0 \
\
18-19 - 
\i End of salutary neglect. High military expenditures had to be recovered --> from the American colonists (Declaratory Act, Sugar Act, and Stamp Act). 
\i0 \
\
19-21 - 
\i Customs officials targeted for violence. Basically organized mob actions cooperated with colonial opposition movement. Urban riots spread. 
\i0 \
\
21-23 - 
\i Stamp Act repealed in 1766 after widespread opposition in colonial America with support from Pitt and others in England --> debate about virtual representation. Repeal did little to stave off American resentment. New taxes were met with boycotts of British goods until 1770.
\i0 \
\
23-24 - 
\i 1770-1773 saw imperial harmony as trade resumed and a speculative bubble grew. When the bubble burst, the conflict resumed in earnest. Credit collapsed, British merchants called in longstanding debts in the colonies, and the value of American exports fell dramatically. To help the East India Company, England gave it a monopoly on importing tea to America, and established the Tea Act of 1773
\i0 .\
\
24-25 - 
\i Colonists already resented British troops for guarding against settlement on Indian lands, and serving as a police force. After the Boston Tea Party, England closed Boston harbor, occupied the town with troops, and replaced its local government.
\i0 \
\
25 - 
\i Continental Congress in Philadelphia (1774) -> Declaration of Rights -> organize associations/committees to boycott British goods and promote home consumption.\
\

\i0 25-27 - 
\i By 1775, the committees were distributing radical political literature and organizing to coerce colonists to oppose British policy and support the Continental Congress. Anti-king sentiment only grew over the course of the war.
\i0 \
\
*27-28 - 
\i Ideological aspects of the revolutionaries' politics and thought.\
\

\i0 ***27-28 - "The men who were mapping out the road to revolution did not identify with the entire people, fearing the sailors and slaves who had kept alive revolutionary fervor during the crisis with Britain. Even Thomas Paine turned against mobs after a riot in Philadelphia in 1779. Once the revolution was consolidated, the shock troops were no longer needed and had to be disbanded."\
\
*28-30 - 
\i Horrible and devastating impact of the American Revolution and its victory on Indians.
\i0 \
\
31-36 - 
\i Sketch of both sides' military organization and the course of the war's "eastern theater." Significant is the eventual American treaty with France, which immediately put England on the defensive in Europe. \
\

\i0 36-38 - 
\i War crimes and plundering committed by both sides in the war. Impact on the West Indies and other British colonies.
\i0 \
\
38-39 - 
\i Breakdown and sample of loyalists and neutrals, as well as mass exodus of loyalists after war to Canada.
\i0 \
\
39-41 - 
\i Expansion of democracy over the course of war and post-war year (contraction for women). Colonial elites and radicals fought it out politically. Some land confiscation of loyalists and price controls, but veterans of the war received little if anything until 1818, and women even less.
\i0 \
\
41-44 - 
\i Breakdown of black support for England vs. revolution. Survey of runaways, maroon communities, and the abolition of slavery in some northern states.
\i0 \
\
*44 - "The Patriot camp was shaped by the events that transpired after 1763, when the actions of the British army and policies enacted by Parliament combined to alienate many settlers. The new laws required Americans to help pay for their own defense, albeit without their consent, and the new tasks of the redcoats\'97protecting Indian lands against squatters and occupying the town of Boston\'97caused increasing resentment. But resentment in itself did not breed revolution, and few would have conceived of a total rupture with Britain until General Gage's troops provoked a bloody military encounter in Massachusetts in 1775."\
\

\b The War on Privilege and Dissension: The French Revolution
\b0 \
\
45-46 - 
\i French financial turmoil resulted from their near century of constant war. The country was heavily in debt, and the Crown had limited options in terms of how to extract taxes from its subjects. 
\i0 \
\
46 - "Artisans with various trades, some already out of work, others dreading the same fate, took the helm in September 1787, and violent clashes ensued with the Paris Guard\'85The timing of these confrontations was curious, occurring as they did after the stamp act had been declared null and avoid. The demonstrations actually took place as people celebrated this decision. Along with similar distrubances in August and September 1788, these crowd actions provided a training ground for those that took place during the revolution. A tradition of revolt had not existed prior to these riots." \
\
47 - "All finance ministers relied in part on the old tradition to sell offices as a way to borrow money. In the process, by strengthening the spreading privilege, they unwittingly promoted the idea of fundamental social change. Receptivity to this idea was growing rapidly\'85the Paris 
\i parlement
\i0 \'85adopted the rhetoric of representative government\'85public opinion was suddenly everywhere."\
\
47-49 - 
\i King calls on the Estates General to meet in order to counsel. Democratic organization put out representatives of the estates. A snapshot of the grievances put forth exposes the multi-sided class and social conflicts at play in France. Unprecedented amount of pamphlets and debate in the lead up to the meeting of the Estates. Liberty, tyranny, etc, were thrown around.
\i0 \
\
49-51 - 
\i Third Estate proved stubborn over credentials and ultimately organized the National Assembly, supported by many of the lower clergy. They got locked out --> Tennis Court Oath. Louis XVI made a bunch of concessions (freedom of the press, personal liberty, and the right to consent to taxes) but would not support the drafting of a constitution. He then dismissed reformist ministers. Parisians launched an armed uprising, collecting arms and gunpowder, and storming the Bastille.
\i0 \
\
51-54 - 
\i Even before the revolt, there were bread riots and strikes. Violence more widespread in the countryside against landlords. Word of royal conspiracy circulated in the countryside between 1788 and 1790. They thought their lords were conspiring with foreigners to starve them and rob them through brigands. 
\i0 \
\
54-55 - 
\i Widespread attacks on symbols of feudal privilege. Diversity of movements, sometimes violent, took direct action against lords and their property. They were coming to see how they were all connected (feudalism). National Assembly abolishes feudalism and proclaims equality of opportunity on August 11, 1789.\
\

\i0 55-57 - 
\i Unforeseen environmental consequences (disaster) to new equal access to land and fauna. November 1789 saw Church property confiscated and religious orders dissolved. Lands were sold to urban middle class. Decline of Church also saw decline in poor relief! Exodus of clergy and nobles.
\i0 \
\
57-58 - 
\i Declarations of the Rights of Man, and corresponding debates over the nature of equality and how it could be implemented. Right to property, proved fundamental, unlike equality. \
\

\i0 ***58-60 - 
\i Debate over the abolition of slavery, and the struggles and benefits won by women during the revolution (divorce and end to primogeniture). Role of women in the revolution. 
\i0 \
\
60-62 - 
\i The development of democracy, socially and politically. Popular debate, expansion of the suffrage among propertied men. 
\i0 \
\
62-65 - 
\i The King and Queen's attempted escape 1791--> outrage and the move to Paris --> fracturing of cross-class revolutionary alliances --> constitution complete 1789--> civil equality for blacks, Jews, and protestants --> right to vote for all tax-paying males of 25 or older --> (much younger) legislature created and in joint rule with the King.
\i0 \
\
65-66 - 
\i Survey of the Jacobins and the sans-culottes. 
\i0 \
\
66-67 - 
\i Prussian advance led to Parisian demands for the King to be deposed. National Assembly refused, so Parisians organized the Commune and seized power in Paris (August 9-10, 1791). Assembly dissolved in favor of a new Constitutional Convention. In fear of Prussian advance, workers and sans-culottes arrested priests and foreigners. When the Prussians took Verdun, Parisians descended on the prisons and massacred their captives (September). \
\

\i0 67-68 - 
\i Positive and negative aspects of Jacobin legislation.
\i0 \
\
68-71 - 
\i Execution of the King, and increasingly radical reforms and popular destruction of symbols of the past (monarch, privilege, Church). Loss of popular European support after the September massacres and execution.
\i0 \
\
71-73 - 
\i Radical nationalization of society in many aspects. Mass conscription and the beginning of revolutionary war with Europe. All of society was then mobilized to contribute to the war effort, and domestic reforms were scrapped to focus on the conflict.
\i0 \
\
74-77 - 
\i The Terror, revolt against the Jacobins, virtual civil war, and then Thermidor.
\i0 \
\
78-79 - 
\i Genuine continuity of politicians in the legislature after Thermidor (minus Robespierre and co.). Although Terror put to an end, political pluralism was still abhorred. Urban middling sort bought up more than 90% of land after 1795. Applied French social and political dictums on territory they conquered. 
\i0 \
\
79-80 - 
\i Things started to calm down domestically. Civic peace restored, people went back to airing their opinions. People and troops went back to work. Primary schools were established by law, but they floundered and disappeared by 1795 because of a lack of money. Country in the midst of economic depression. Famine became more widespread. Abolition of price controls made things worse, except for a nouveaux riches. \
\

\i0 80-81 - 
\i String of conspiracies and coups (including Babeuf's) that eventually led to Napoleon's.
\i0 \
\
*82-83 - 
\i Concluding overview of the revolution.
\i0 \
\

\b From Prize Colony to Black Independence: The Revolution in Haiti
\b0 \
\
84-87 - 
\i Economic significance and wealth of Saint Domingue. Apparently a debtor's paradise, much of the wealth stayed on the island. Most of the colonists wanted commercial autonomy. They resented French taxes and wanted to trade with non-French colonies. Nativism started to take hold, as planters started to resent absentee landlords. They even staged a revolt, conceding to British occupation.
\i0 \
\
87-89 - 
\i The complexities of the different racial and social strata. 
\i0 \
\
89 - 
\i First stringent French laws regulating race hierarchy and mixing in the years following the Seven Years' War. More strict than anywhere else in the New World?
\i0 \
\
90 - 
\i Ideological positions for and against rights for people of color
\i0 .\
\
90-92 - 
\i Role, characteristics, and scale of African slavery in Saint Domingue.\
\

\i0 93-\
\
\
\

\b The Revolutions Compared: Causes, Patterns, Legacies
\b0 \
\
}